:hide-toc:

.. _chap4:

Publishing Patterns
===================

.. raw:: html

   <h2>Abstract</h2>

There is an increasingly wide variety of organisations
who are publishing Linked Open Data. The growth of the
"Linked Data Cloud" is a staple of all Linked Data
presentations and charts the early success of the
community in boot-strapping an interconnected set of
datasets across the web.

There is also a wide variety of ways in which Linked Data
is being published, including:

- Simple statically generated RDF and HTML files
- RDFa embedded in web application pages
- As an extension to the principled design of a web
  application that supports a rich variety of views
  and data formats
- As independent datasets dynamically generated over
  data stored in triple stores, relational databases
  or other data sources

In addition data might be published as both a primary or
secondary sources, e.g. as an RDF conversion of a data
dump available from another organisation. The ongoing
challenge for the growth and adoption of Linked Data will
be in simplifying getting more data online, e.g.
continuous improvement to tools, as well as the
introduction of more primary sources that are commitment
to publishing high quality, regularly updated data.

Regardless of the source of the data or the means of its
publication, there are a number of recurring patterns and
frequently asked questions that relate to best practices
around data publishing. This chapter documents a number
of patterns relating to Linked Data publishing, and in
particular how data can be made more discoverable, and
over time enriched and inter-linked.

While many of these patterns may have been discovered
through the publication of Linked Open Data, they are
generally applicable to Linked Data publishing in other
contexts, e.g. inside an enterprise.


.. rubric:: **Table Of Contents**

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :numbered:

   Annotation <annotation>
   Autodiscovery <autodiscovery>
   Dataset Autodiscovery <dataset-autodiscovery>
   Document Type <document-type>
   Edit Trail <edit-trail>
   Embedded Metadata <embedded-metadata>
   Equivalence Links <equivalence-links>
   Link Base <link-base>
   Materialize Inferences <materialize-inferences>
   Primary Topic Autodiscovery <primary-topic-autodiscovery>
   Progressive Enrichment <progressive-enrichment>
   See Also <see-also>
   Unpublish <unpublish>
