:hide-toc:

.. _chap3:

Modelling Patterns
==================

.. raw:: html

   <h2>Abstract</h2>

Creating a model of some domain for publishing data as
Linked Data is, fundamentally, no different to any other
form of modelling exercise: we need to understand the
core entities and their attributes, including their
relationships to one another. RDF has a core model that
is based on the declared old Entity-Attribute-Value (EAV)
approach that underpins many different information
management approaches and technologies. What is different
and new for many people is the context in which that
modelling is carried out.

When we are creating an Entity-Relationship (ER) or
Object-Oriented model we are typically doing so in order
to support the needs of a particular application. We have
some idea about what data the application needs to store
and we tailor the model accordingly. We also typically
optimise the model for the needs of that application. In
particular, when translating a logical ER into a physical
database schema, we often need to introduce new entities,
e.g. to capture many-many relationships in order to be
able to express the model within the restrictions imposed
by a relational database.

In a Linked Data context we approach a modelling exercise
in a different way.

Firstly we may be able to avoid the exercise completely.
Using RDF Schema and OWL it is possible to share
vocabularies (or ontologies, or schemas, whatever your
preferred term) on the web, just as we share data. This
means that communities of interest can collaborate around
a data model and then extend it where necessary. With
semantic web technologies we can better crowd-source and
share our data models.

It is often the case that a combination of existing
vocabularies will adequately cover a domain. Where there
is a short-fall we can define small extensions, e.g. new
properties or types, that extend the model for our
purposes.

The second key difference is that we focus on modelling
the domain itself and set aside the immediate needs of
the application. By focusing on the model rather than the
application, we are more likely to be able to extend and
enrich the model at a later date. Thinking about the
entities and their relationships, rather than our
application code, results in a stronger model. And one
that may be more likely to be of use to others.

Of course a model must ultimately support the kinds of
data we want to capture or manipulate in our application.
The ability to populate and query a model is a good test
of its fit for purpose, but application requirements
alone shouldn't guide our modelling.

This is not the same as saying that all modelling must be
done up front. Modelling for Linked Data can be agile and
iterative. We should just take care to think about the
likely areas of extension, as the `Link Not
Label <link-not-label.html>`__ pattern illustrates.

Thirdly, and finally, the other important way in which
RDF modelling differs from other approaches is that there
is no separate physical data model: the logical model is
exactly how our data is stored. An RDF triple store is
"schema-free" in the sense that we don't have to define
the physical layout (e.g. tables, columns) of our
database. Any RDF triple store can store any RDF data
expressed using any RDF vocabulary.

This makes RDF very amenable for rapid, iterative
application development. Importantly it also means that
everyone involved in a project team is working off the
same domain model; the same mental model of how the
resources in a dataset are described and how they relate
to one another.

This chapter introduces a number of RDF modelling
patterns that are useful in a variety of different use
cases. Several of the patterns are really illustrations
of how to use particular features of RDF, e.g. annotation
of literals with `data types <typed-literal.html>`__ or
`languages <multi-lingual-literal.html>`__. We've
included these within the overall patterns collection as
we feel that presenting them as solutions to specific
questions, e.g. "How can internationalized text be
expressed in RDF?" may help address what are frequently
asked questions by new users.

.. rubric:: **Table Of Contents**

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :numbered:

   Custom Datatype <custom-datatype>
   Index Resources <index-resources>
   Label Everything <label-everything>
   Link Not Label <link-not-label>
   Multi-Lingual Literal <multi-lingual-literal>
   N-Ary Relation <nary-relation>
   Ordered List <ordered-list>
   Ordering Relation <ordering-relation>
   Preferred Label <preferred-label>
   Qualified Relation <qualified-relation>
   Reified Statement <reified-statement>
   Repeated Property <repeated-property>
   Topic Relation <topic-relation>
   Typed Literal <typed-literal>

